Open Source Poems and Otherwise2003-2013 Dr. Greg O’Toole, Ph.D.Published by Civic Media Press 2013www.civicmediapress.comOpen Source Poems and Otherwise. Published by Civic Media Press © 2013. Rhythm Mountain Studios is an imprint of Civic Media Press.Promote Open Source. This project is an open source contribution under Creative Commons license Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported CC BY-NC-SA 3.0. You are free: to Share: to copy, distribute and transmit the work; to Remix: to adapt the work; Under the following conditions: Attribution: You must attribute the work in the manner specified by the author or licensor (but not in any way that suggests that they endorse you or your use of the work). Noncommercial: You may not use this work for commercial purposes. Share Alike: If you alter, transform, or build upon this work, you may distribute the resulting work only under the same or similar license to this one. With the understanding that: Waiver: Any of the above conditions can be waived if you get permission from the copyright holder. Public Domain: Where the work or any of its elements is in the public domain under applicable law that status is in no way affected by the license. Other Rights: In no way are any of the following rights affected by the license: Your fair dealing or fair use rights, or other applicable copyright exceptions and limitations; The author's moral rights; Rights other persons may have either in the work itself or in how the work is used, such as publicity or privacy rights. Notice: For any reuse or distribution, you must make clear to others the license terms of this work. The best way to do this is with a link to the following web sites: www.otoole.info and www.civicmediapress.com.This book and all of its contents in their original forms are the intellectual property of the author and Civic Media Press. Where applicable all names have been changed from any real persons involved. All other semblance, affinity, or likeness to any persons alive or dead is purely an occurrence of chance—such is life, so it goes.Find it on Github: https://github.com/gto1 Open Source Poems and Otherwise, First Edition publication 2013, Published by Civic Media Press. www.civicmediapress.com ISBN-13: 978-0971112537ISBN-10: 0971112533 Cover Photograph: Still Capture of original video from Jones & Laughlin Pittsburgh Works 1955.ogv. Location: 40° 26? 30.00? N, 80° 0? 0.00? W. Original Video Description: Driving east toward the Brady Street Bridge on U.S. Route 30 in September of 1955 reveals the stack array of the Jones and Laughlin Pittsburgh Works on the south side of the Monongahela River. Date: September 1955. Author: Antarctic96; Source: Own work: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Jones_%26_Laughlin_Pittsburgh_Works_1955.ogvDedicationThis book is dedicated to Dr. Walter S. Nosal, Ph.D.; coal mining Jerome, PA native, professor, husband, (great/grand-) father, psychologist, athlete, Roman Catholic, writer, dancer, and wanderer (and probably a lot of other things I never knew about). To me he is the original Rambler who didn’t have a car, but hitchhiked the whole way.This book is also dedicated to Joseph Martin O’Toole, Sr.; Pittsburgh, PA Jones & Laughlin Steel Co. locomotive engineer, union organizer, husband, (great/grand-) father, Roman Catholic, and neighbor (and probably a lot of other things I never knew about).These two men are my grandfathers. In considering a few of the qualities that are possible in a man (such as the ones listed above), I like to think that, probably among other things, I am a pretty decent combination of these two separate and different, but equal, people.Table of ContentsTobyhanna Creek	11The Beak of the Woodcock Bird	12Hockey Night	14The Dance of Salmon Dinner Twice	15One Dozen High	16The Seagull Chaser by Leonard Treadway	17Farewell, Colorado	19Crow Effigy	24Mug Shot Compadre	25Post Factum Vernacular Jive	26Valentine Hill Road	27Le Café Compositeur	29Not A Poem	31Frontier Poem	33Hot Springs, Montana	36My Friend in California	37The New Still Life Painting	39The Small Town Ballet	41The Spanish Symphony on PBS	42Brother Pro 7800 Electric Thrift Store Typewriter	44New Town Audio No Excitement	45Cold Mountain Cabin Omaha Typewriter Poem	46Like a Northeastern and Creole Girl	47Black Bird Highway	49Hitchhiker Poem	52Sunday Troubadour	53Book Mark Tickets	55A Painted Saint Jude	57Still Reflections of the Sunrise	59Long-Distance Runner	60Although Good Parents Would Not Approve, Joking Around With Strangers on the Soft Shoulder Comes Highly Recommended	61To All Those Involved in A Frickle Frackle Shakori Ramblers Hot Damn Reunion	63Denver’s Newest Timeless Litorical Escapades	64Smart as a Whip	65The Ex-Girlfriend Roda Leeverson	66Bridge Jumpers Union, Inc. A Neo-propaganda strategy for the hangers-on, a past time for Helots	67Fifty Pesos y Mi Novia	70Two Candles	71Sit in A Chair and Pay A Professional to Do the Job	72Speaking of Houses	74A Prayer Three Decades Down	75Thursday in Early June Under the Never Summer Range	76The Entire World is in My Corner Coffee Shop	77Conversion Vans in Belfast	80Oh, Those Denver Friday Night Frick-a-freck Rock-a-day Poems	81Capital Punishment Song	84Poem for My Wife	85The Celebrity Elite of Elvis Presley, Kurt Cobain and Hunter S. Thompson	88How Is Work Today Poem	89Commuter Train Boxcar Repent	91Drag It Through the Hoegaarden	92Something Not Satisfied So We Gotta Keep Trying Blues (or Funeral Song for Grandpa)	93Monday Morning Story	94The Way It Doesn’t Absolutely Have To Be But Should	96Open Source Poems & OtherwiseTobyhanna CreekJust when I get out there up in the Poconos, The Appalachian Mountains, lazy Sunday morning, 40+ degrees, zero wind, bright blue sunny skies at Two-thousand feet. Fly fishing on Tobyhanna Creek, the Waterfalls behind me, my old brown shoes On the rocks, twenty-year beat-up wool field coat, The sun burning my face, the elusive trout, Me thinking its early spring. Just then It’s the singular and uninterrupted grand alignment. I stood still for one hour watching the swills move, Got dizzy and floated away Thinking, I gotta get some polarized Nikon binoculars To see the nymphs birth And chart out the emergers Locked in tight and wrangled in, just so.The Beak of the Woodcock BirdI woke up at dawn under the quilt and wool blanketsFrom a dream where I’d landed in my private jetIn a park in Las Vegas, Nevada, wonderingWhy I didn't choose to landIn Aspen or Park City, Utah in stead. ILaid there still, heavy poundsOf down around me cocooned.I didn’t want to, yet, open my eyes.The only sound around was the blizzardContinuing from last evening, orAn occasional creak in it’s structural bonesAs the wind laid influence on the house.Slippers on, I shivered down the stairs,The new sunlight on the snow was opaque.The radio was on talking onSteadily about Richard Brautigan,A very important writer who wrote,Among other important things,Trout Fishing in America, and, moreImportantly had a cabin near, I believe it was,Helena, Montana. Big Sky, they say.He had a longer mustache thanI have ever had myself,And he walked around with theGun slinging composition of Buffalo Bill,But on the streets and in the living roomsOf San Francisco, California. Billy CollinsWas on the radio, too, talking about Brautigan.Collins wrote the introduction to a reissueOf the book, which mentions no charactersOther than Trout Fishing in America, no plot,No storyline. Just, among other things,A meandering theme and movingAnd sometimes bizarre comparisonsLike sticking a fire hydrant in a pencil sharpenerAs the beak of the woodcock bird, somewhere in America.Hockey NightOK, Flyers, this is it. Tonight is the night. We paint the streets, we Tweet, we yell, we cheer, We support, we jump, we teach our children sportsmanship And dedication; we love. The fire in us is blaze orange. The shadows, black. The white light is bright. We miss Pronger. We laugh when The Great Briz snuffs the press Because, aside from getting us the images and sounds Of the games far away from the Wells Fargo ice, Who needs the press? Focus and relax And have fun out there because When you do, we all do, and the game is fluid, It’s a raging river rushing down a steep canyon. It’s beautiful, now Go!The Dance of Salmon Dinner TwiceLast night we had an excellent meal Of Alaskan grilled king salmon.Today I asked Carey, my wife, What we are having for dinner tonight. She, of course, said Leftover salmon.I danced a little for the festival old days real quickAnd went straight back to work.One Dozen HighShips stacked, chips stackedOne dozen high alongWood block rubber stampsShe left mixed matched abandonedOn the coffee table, the oldBrown coffee table littered attackedBombarded covered with 3” x 5” cards,Pink, green, white, black permanent marker.I printed words on each of them:Not too easy, not too complex,Not too many syllables, but, then again,Veterinarian has five.Twenty or so vocabulary flash cardsWith words like water and patientTo familiarize her young mindWith the right things in life.She sighs, but knows, each eveningWhen I say “go do your cards” thatThere is a stack of the auspicious,Balanced by a stack of the iniquitousEach of which is a rumble of terminologyA heavenly troublesome churning of semantics,Strife, strike, struggle of syllables ---Veterinarian has five, the same number as her years.The Seagull Chaser by Leonard TreadwayIn 1953 Roland Tierney was six years old. When I first got a glimpse of him that summer he had been a seagull chaser for only one full week, but it seemed already he was very close to mastery. He was a natural, as they say, by all senses of the word. And he had gumption. He could sprint across the sand for hours on end, never tiring. I thought more than once, sitting there in my observatory beach chair, behind dark sunglasses And a non-fiction account of something or other, that Roland was like a timber wolf on the hunt, covering an incomprehensible amount of space in one stretch. The mystic, powerful timber wolf is known for gracefully trekking Up to 500 miles at a time across alpine tundra whenever such effort is required. Roland, I imagined, could perhaps do the same over sand with a barking seagull popping from a dune into flight just a very few steps his fore. The world of seagull chasing back then was much the same as it is today, granted a fifty some year dynasty of individual changes and evolutions in style, technique and all the other personal attributes that make any athlete in any sporting event unique. The things that are fundamentally required in seagull Chasing are minimal. It doesn’t take much to be a seagull chaser in this world. But those things that are required to achieve greatness are those things of which by nature, and perhaps nurture, Roland Tierney was indeed very much endowed.Farewell, ColoradoI am writing this to you from the driver’s seat, the captain’s chair of my last three days inside your borders, so farewell.I am writing this to you from the vantage point of nine years, when I first crossed over, youthful and naïve, from Kansas, music blaring compadre racing like king Dharma to the foothills for an Allman Brothers concert three days running against red rocks jutting like lightening bolts from the earth.That was my first church, Farewell Colorado, and I am writing this to you in order to let you know, that was my first church, and Gregg Allman’s Hammond B3 organ thoroughly offered up the hymns.I went back to Chicago to work after that, but it didn’t take long to get back to the mountains I saw everyday in my mind, and the melee that ensued is enough to rationalize the most profound beat down back pocket notebook series of journals any Allman Brothers fan has ever known, Colorado.So, Farewell Colorado, I am leaving your Redstone cabins hoisted above the curvy death elken roads where Cassidy laid barking at the ground squirrels and dusty pig pen llama.Farewell Colorado, I am leaving your Aspen town to its faithful rich and ethically down-trodden, to gloat and ram themselves praisingly against their gluttonous firs, to masturbate themselves in their own illusions.Farewell Colorado, I am leaving your drugged out methamphetamine youth to blow cocaine on their willful trampolines, snowboarding themselves to drink and bottoming out before their twenty-first year.Farewell Colorado, I am leaving Crystal River, alone I was at all times, bellowing hellos to the empty canyons, wandering the ghostly school yards of Marble township, taking snapshots of the solitary woods.Farewell Colorado, I am leaving your wishful ex-girlfriends cavorting early on how they long for the reputation of living in your valleys.Farewell Colorado, I am leaving your smoky, alcoholic sit up to the bar pubs where young girls served me drinks and winks and I never hadda pay a dime, but your human drama soap-opera script ventures and casting calls were never far behind.Farewell Colorado, I am leaving your bongo drum percussion concussions to dwell along the hallways and ship shape bedrooms of Aspen Valley Hospital, the pinging sensation of amnesia is a scary one indeed.Farewell Colorado, I am leaving your week long road trips to Utah, to Lake Powell, to suffer in the heat and fade away into horrific nightmares cloaked in viral spinal meningitis, the lonely television shows who kept me company all those morphine hours in my illusionary sick ward afternoons.Farewell Colorado, I am leaving your DUI arrests to fend for themselves. I have no use for you any longer, and the jail cell in the courthouse of notorious Pitkin County just really ain’t that bad.Farewell Colorado, I am leaving your courthouses for good, no more security, no more testimonies, no more pleading and bargaining with the washed out drunks who parade themselves silly all around your walks and alleys, praying like old day mantis in the dirt.Farewell Colorado, I am leaving your crazy girls who haven’t a good word to say, who haven’t a clear and clean idea in their heads, who sit on the porch, drinking bottles of beer and wine, smoking cigarettes like a new born dolt.Farewell Colorado, I am leaving your Bluegrass Compounds, floating down stream, frozen rocks and white cap wishing waves cooling down another summer on the road.Farewell Colorado, I am leaving your Rico town, twenty miles from Telluride, I’m leaving your Telluride, I’m leaving your Telluride newspaper jobs, Telluride bar stools, Telluride festivals cause all we ever did was drink, and you can’t drink yourself into a decent position in this world, no matter how hard you try.Farewell Colorado, I am leaving your earthship eco-fantastic cellar dweller homes half in, half out of your conservation realities, I am leaving your room mate women dwelling, rink rank drinking in my rented room, the stacks of paintings in the corners, the paintings hung on the walls, the still life set-ups, the smell of oil paint at eleven thousand feet, and swirving death trap roads for twelve hours to Chicago.Farewell Colorado, I am leaving your Nine Mile Trail up to the hot springs in fall, my dog is leaving you too, my dog has eventually left for good.Farewell Colorado, I am leaving your rucksack wanderers coming in for new generations, finding work, finding ridicule, finding solace in the hills and green pastures, like mountain goats with fricka frack backpacks full of tea.Farewell Colorado, I am leaving your Front Range cities full of mad capped, Looney Tunes women and busy streets and Universities that stay up till dawn. I am leaving, finally, you’re bi-polar counterparts, and leaky dumpsters made hospitable for the homeless hangers-on, who stare into space, and taunt arguments with the fast traffic lines and rainy day, blue sky heavens any chance they get.Farewell Colorado, I am leaving you now, for your racial tensions in the nightclub evenings and makeout Irish Snug holidays has gone way too far. Like an old sponge, Colorado, or a break-down downtown East Colfax brothel full of eco-rapists and geographic bank robbers, you’ve long past your prime, your days are numbered, Colorado, you’re heart is all used up. Farewell Colorado, I’ve found the reason I came to you to begin with. Take care of yourself, don’t install too many condominiums in the mountains and everyday wash behind your ears. I’ll send money when I land on my feet, Colorado, farewell.Crow EffigyGo, crow, go! I said, a’hollered outFrom the stone bench, knee bents,Shoes warn from walking, Snow dripping down into  Cloudy day socks below.It's either a photovoltaic cracker,I shouted across the common,Or a polytechnic banger. Either Way, I concluded for the crowd growing,It will chase off ten thousand crows likeNo sinewy straw-packed scarecrow ever could.Although, I post scripted vocally for them each, A cracker and a banger, no matter how scientific One may be, could never loose leg walk-dance For a brain, kicks or otherwise and rightfullyFollow the ways of the yellow brick road.  Mug Shot CompadreFor the valiant editor, Sam ComptonNow, if this was 2001, and the dog days of summer were upon us somewheres in America and you were still wearing the ripped radio tshirt, still had not showered (except for wading elegantly and siren-like in a river) and your feet still were black with dirt and spew from Oregon and Indiana and North Carolina, I would have had no doubt that I'd see you again, your face in lights, but I would have first guessed that face would have been on a piece of paper stapled to a post office bulletin board, one photograph to the front, one to the side, or in less than ideal cases: your image on the back of a milk carton in the cooler at Shell.But you shined and you labor and the television news came to talk to you to put a microphone in your face and a camera in your face to do a story about what you do, tirelessly day in, day out, to get the children the food they need to run tirelessly, too, all along and when the dog days of summer are upon them, too.Post Factum Vernacular JiveThere was a time when it was OK to say “groovy,” but try not to do so now.And “cool” is ineffable, just ask old Poynor, overseas in the UK.I heard a twelve year old tell his friend that his friends bike “rocks,”And an American CEO agreed, saying this: “that’s awesome.”Eighteen to twenty-four year olds cannot speak, generally, without Inserting the word “like” before any and all verbs.I’ve observed this as they take breaks from their screens,Social media never out of arms reach, crooked cap on head.You could at least take the tags off, I say to them as they stareDown, thumbs ping ponging bad smiley faces in punctuation.You could at least pull up your pants and pretend to care, pretendNot to be in a cloud, computing or otherwise, figuratively speaking, too.Valentine Hill RoadI won’t kid you or beat around a figurative, romantic bush: I am getting old.I won’t tell you that with age comes wisdom, everyone says that,And things that everyone say have no reason or right to be in poems.I won’t tell you that I work too much, and that not enough of it is writing poetry.I won’t tell you the kids can drive a man crazy, run a parent into the ground,Sighing deeply at 7:20 PM EST, saying aloud or thinking to themselves this:Forty minutes till some peace and quiet. Forty minutes till some peace and quiet.It’s ok to say you’ve said that or thought it in some variation. Your parents did, too.I won’t tell you the autumn leaves are changing in the mountains of central Pennsylvania with the Appalachian Trail to the East toward Philadelphia.I won’t mention the smell of cold air and wood smoke and warm sunshineKeeps the flies and ladybugs snapping bug parties on the backyard deck.I won’t mention the studio I built in what used to be the walkout basement, Or the desk I bought for fifteen dollars down the road, or the dresser we bought For one hundred seventy five, the convicts loaded it into the truck, I drove It home, we cleaned it up, washed it down, laid it out to dry.When the winter comes on full, the flies and ladybugs’ll go, but I’ll still be hereWorking in the studio, listening to The Folkshow and The Thistle and ShamrockOn NPR. Tie on the running shoes go three miles up and down into town nearThe gas station off the low branch of the river alongside Valentine Hill Road.Le Café CompositeurI spend $7.74US every morning at Kaladi Bros. Coffee. I get a Naked juice (they don’t have Odwalla) of daily circulating flavors and types (Superfood Berry, Antioxidant Orange, Protein Blue, etc.), and a vanilla latte with 2% milk, as opposed to it’s usual, heavier sibling, whole. The total, each morning, is actually $6.64US, and I add on $1.00US as a tip. I understand it’s not my usual 22% on-the-balance gratuity, I figure my consistence in return-service customership really is the financial benefit to Kaladi’s caffeinated operation. Plus, I just finished graduate school, and, at this point in anyone’s life, a large bank roll is never close at hand. In addition, the baristas at Kaladi don’t have to move very much to take care of my worldly needs: one person punches in the numbers on the cash register, picks up a paper cup, turns around, hands it to le café compositeur, says “vanilla latte.” Compositeur takes the cup, makes a latte (without moving their feet, sometimes remembering to add Vanilla syrup, sometimes not), and puts it up on the tall, brass “pick-up” tray with a smile. I always smile at them, both people involved, and they always smile back. We say “How are you today?” and “How’s it going?” and things of this nature to each other because, generally, they are really nice people, and seem to be very happy where they are, providing a wonderful and delicious service to their community, all the while supporting local artisans, On their walls, promoting awareness of fair global trade with the literature strewn about the shop, elucidating the company’s right-minded and ethical foundations.As it goes, it’s something in this life of which I wish we would see more.Not A PoemThis is not a poem. This is not a creative line of verse, or a long short story inventing a thick plot filled with various interesting characters, with their sketches, whom you get to know over a brief allotted frame of time, who carry you along in their strange and voluptuous lives. This is not an Italian sonnet by Petrarch, a Spencerian sonnet by the lit-monk Spencer, a Shakespearean sonnet, or a new blues form sonnet, each which require in their own way the formal arrangement of an octet then a sestet, fourteen lines of text to marry it’s parameters with your inner voice.This is not a poem.This is not a haiku stamped out in seventeen Japanese syllables, five, seven, five, or as in Kerouac’s Scattered Poems where we need only to say “a lot” in three lines, where only the author’s intentions need be “correctly aligned with the proper attitude” in order to sweep the reader directly off her feet. This is not an oppressed stanza of triplet madrigal, originated by Geoffrey Chaucer, or an iambic bebop pentameter of five playful feet arranged to your liking. This is not a poem.This is a one-sided conversation, a detail, an element, a passage that has but one intention. Headlines, maybe, from page one of the early morning newsprint of my today. A missive with one reason to perform itself on the very page you now hold in your hand. A handful, then, of fluent eloquence, to tell you how I feel; an articulate elocution to let you know, and be sure, that you are the most important person I have ever known; an admonition of faith to the only girl that I have ever excitedly, right mindfully, genuinely and honestly loved.This is not a poem.(for Carey)Frontier PoemI’ve been out on the frontier now for nearly a year, and fortunately the magpies are as frequent as the wild spruce and the Douglas fir, but the drunks at the pub are the worst.It’s not really a pub, though, as in the city sense,but a condemned issuance of lost personalitiesdrowning their no-ideas and running from their own minds. (I guess that too could be a pub, though, in the city sense.)I’ve been out on the frontier now for a year, andthe snows been falling four weeks, never stops butslows down at nightfall like me when I drip from the hot bathtub scrubbed pink skin steaming in the cabin, I turn off the lights and wearing flannel clothes crawl under three layers of blankets: a warm cocoon come morning. I dream about my family, and Lenny and Ashley Judd in an old warm southern baptist mansion in her dress that, when I wake, makes me want to go back to my dream and no longer be out on the frontier. That’s when I crawl back out, steep hot green and black tea, tie on my boots and shovel the path that no one ever walks but me and one neighbor girl when she drops by bags of produce that I first paint still life scenes of, then cook into a soup. And eat. I don’t know where that produce all comes from, but when you’re out on the frontier and March feels like December making a long winter into a longer one, such questions you find irrelevant to ask.I’ve been out on the frontier now for a year and a week, and had no job most the time. I’ve been snowed in, though, so no job is good. Anyhow jobs are only good when the job is good. And I’ve yet to find that on the frontier.I’ve been out on the frontier for a year and two weeks now, and the writings going well. I’ve stacked up two new books of poems, one with a book of ink drawings to match, a half a new novel, a start of a second, eleven short stories and three hundred and five letters in the mail. Big city folk, they say, don’t write letters anymore. Sometimes, you know, it’s good to be on the frontier.I’ve been out on the frontier for a year now and one month, and sitting silent meditation every evening is part of my world. Most people I’ve found, don’t even know what meditation really is. I wouldn’t know, though, really, because out here on the frontier there are no people to ask.I’ve been out on the frontier for a year now and two months. I think a lot about going home. Then I wonder exactly where that is and wonder if the frontier is becoming my home.I’ve been out on the frontier now for a year and two months, and realized I found solace long ago in looking out the window alone every morning at the trees, then up in the sky to the clouds, wondering how many coats to wear today. When I get out there I notice the family of white tail deer on my slope out front of the cabin near the road didn’t come by since the last big snow yesterday morning. No tracks. They must be off in the woods where I followed them last fall when the two new-borns, still spotted on their backs, stayed with their mother everywhere she went. And sometimes when I approached them walking with languor and looking them softly in their big black eyes, they clicked their hooves on the ground, stomping the earth and the sky. This winter they’re tucked away in a den, melted off the snow with the heat of their bodies and lay away the day, warm and content beneath the trees. And when spring comes, I’ll see those babies having babies, and I’ll follow them again, that is, if I’m still out here on the frontier.Hot Springs, Montana(Typed out spontaneously, sitting on an old Persian rug, on a 1976 Brother mechanical typewriter and a 3/5 x 5 inch piece of notebook paper while visiting Abbey’s second hand and antique store in downtown Hot Springs, Montana late night after a long soak in the mineral baths. The original format has been closely retained in this printing.)In the light, for this, I say, makes the streets 	silver in the day—	and the roads 	in my way home	the river ran across 	board games	Buddhas magazines	shaded beer bottles 	across the way	mechanical machine-gun verbs 	riding, sling fireplace nouns	girls in wild blue saffron dresses 	and dancing bodices of silk	dogs in the mineral 	hot springs running,	madness under my 	instamatic no-moon nights.My Friend in CaliforniaMy friend in California sent this letter to me. I haven’t read it all yet but I scanned it and saw reference to the FDA, organic supplements, and the human body, so I automatically thought about you.But, then again, all I did was wake up this morning,squint fairly from the January sun, open my eyes, and I automatically thought about you.Downstairs I poured water in the potted fern on the counter waiting for tea, water leaked out the muddy holes at the bottom and the plant said your name, soI automatically thought about you.The house was quiet and there was more snow on the ground. The carport was icy all around. Still in my flannel pajamas and beat-down sneakers with no socksI climbed the frigid ladder to my painting studiothen the teapot started to boil. When I came backdown I was alone. I put on my rust-colored second-hand down coatwith one pocket ripped that fits Burt’s Bees-wax like you always have at least two. My lips weren’t chapped, but the pockets kept my hands warm anyway, so still, I automatically thought about you.I read a short story from the New Yorker in the bathtub and the characters all lived in a big house near Harvard, had unknowingly intense compassionate relationships. My favorite girl in that Harvard house painted her room black raspberry and got purple fingerprints on the phone that stayed even after she left. That girl automatically made me think about you.I saw an ad in the newspaper classified someone selling a car, I thought it might have been silver or a Subaru, so, I automatically then thought about you.Later, I thought about buying an orange at the market,without asking, I even knew which one you would like.I looked out the window doing dishes as the sun rayedthrough the trees. I saw some small deer feedingand no footprints in the snow, so, rinsing off the plate, I automatically thought about you.But, then again, all I did was wake up this morning, open my eyes, stare at the big dipper knotted in my pine ceiling,the moon still crooked in the corner,hanging oblong on a shadow, and I automatically thought about you.The New Still Life PaintingIt had the sweetest little suggestions of color here and there, as if a force called nature brung’em on herself, and the shapes appeared nearly scientific.It was chalky, white foreground bared of any bourgeois sheen. Milky, off-white middle-ground sung of substance, and you’d never have to shift your weightto see the Prussian blues in the shadows fallen back into the distance.It had a background that I thought, upon consideration, backed itself into infinity and never showed it’s face again.And the spoon, man, I could’ve picked the thing up with my own two fingers. I think I’d try again given the chance.It once again, brought me back to the instance when I first was made aware of it’s current galaxy presence, and showed me again the caught-in-the-moment, orstill-life pear that rested on its side ready for a king.It had brush-strokes that pulled my eyes from fruit to book to fruit, like I had just been born and never seen these things before.It, I guess, aroused the very depths of my visionary illusions, and, coming back to the candle stick — and my most favorite, the pear — suggested I see the spoon once again. After all, unsuspecting silver wear  predominated somewhat sophisto-cratic-ally from Saint Paul to Saint Cezanne unto my saintly cabin in the woods.It, as in the whole picture, was heavy, like it had weight, and the composition made so much sense, I thought to myself, that the composition itself needed nowhere — or if somehow necessary, somewhere (but not even, if it could) — to exist.It decided for itself, I figured, stepping back, that all it needs now — beside a round of culturalistic exposure in a grand and wild city — is a frame. Wooden, I said aloud, because I see in you a force called nature, and your shapes, I claim, appear to be nearly scientific.The Small Town BalletIt’s all boys in tights running around twinklinggirls in adolescent fairy dust sprinklingballet on stage in pink and green spotlight lenseswith filters and silver spray paint glitter snowflakesrolling across thirty foot backdrop scenes of yellow castles and sequoia candy caneshovering over twelve-year-old queen, her manin hoes dozing restlessly in his puffy soft soldier throne.Outside the theater the real sun goes downman on the moon comes up, made of green cheeseand grand toy soldier fables in the land of the nutcracker suite by ETA Hoffman and Tchaikovsky on the harp, sound track to the small town ballet.The Spanish Symphony on PBSI’ve never seen a conductor use science to lead, and I grew up in Chicago. Where’s Carnegy Hall?Who painted those gold pillars gold lamé? I think gold is the most artless thing in our contemporarily artistic world. I think impressionism’s like chamber music meets jazz, and only then can the impressionists use gold frames on the walls.Are yellow walls and memorized sheet music a preference for brilliance? I need a contemplative theory. I need to know what the drum is called, takes two big soft heads to beat. I need to know why there’s a tea cup in the trumpeter’s horn.If I hadda camera on stage I’d paint a portrait of your hands above the piano keys sprinkling down the ivory like a sailboat, like a rainbow careful not to cross paths with a passenger-carrying ocean-liner on a Saturday afternoon. If I had ultramarine blue, I’d put it in your foreground. If I had titanium white, I’d be your tuxedo shirt collar and maybe a touch of your sporadic and Einsteinian hair.Maurice Ravel and the Spanish Symphony from the Iberian Peninsula. From Berlin. From Knights in the Garden of Spain, you were born in Buenas Aires. The oboe is quiet, cautious footprints in the unfallen snow. A man with a beard plays a cello bigger than his manifesting ego.The wind section begs me to never cry wolf, because next time the french horns won’t be joking around.La La La in the Garden of the Sierra Gordin...there’s a black tea cup in the trumpeter’s horn. Should I get up off the couch to tell him? Everyone in the house is asleep, now really would be the perfect time.Brother Pro 7800 Electric Thrift Store TypewriterThis machine buzzes when I click the switch, 	and I click the switch everyday.It buzzes loud and smooth like reverberations 	from an old stacked gorilla amp.,	that is, amplifier for sound.It cracks from time to time like an old Gibson,	the one I picked up in the garage sale	and shocked my finger plugging in.It rattles if I hammer on the keys an’ shakes up	the babes in row one, yipping and hollering	and giving me ‘the look.’When the poem lines are done, that’s when the big	bucks come rolling in like rolling 	thunder and the Rolling Stones making	strolling blunder headlines, and all the girls	who always come to see.Mic Jaggar told me he once had a Brother Pro 7800	taped to the wood surface of his oaken desk	in university prep school class	so the other kids wouldn’t be tempted	to lift it.“That takes a lot of tape,” I said, “Mic.”“You’re tellin may,” He slurred back. “There aan’t 			ehnuf eelectric typewritaas to gew rawnd.	Bot, thaws kays is loyk rithem.”What I am telling you, then, dear reader, is that	this machine is like my very own dynamic	heavy weight rock and roll guitar--	and the Cadillac of my days.New Town Audio No ExcitementI’m looking for a new poem because I hate my new job,	in the last lights of Montana.I’m looking for a town I don’t hate. I’m looking for 	more than a penny for my time. 	And a town I don’t hate.I’m looking for reason, more reason, that is, then 	the rent. I’m looking for a boat to sail	out to an island.I’m looking for a reason for doing more than just 	writing poems because, by the way, poems	really make my world go ‘round.Poems make people in FLA or ATL feel the snow along 	the spring Swan River.Pomes for people who’ve never been out of Cincinnati	make glacier winds like the winds in their	living room curtains. Not the same, I do say,	but familiar.Familiar is good, but I’m starting to hate that, too.I call that town Cromwell. That way everyone involved	doesn’t get hurt. And, if it comes down to it,	again, I can still get a job there: In	Cromwell. The town in the poems.	The town I right now hate.You might ask me why I find there is no place like	home, when, I, indeed, find my home I maybe	left a long time ago.OK town, no audio excitement.Cold Mountain Cabin Omaha Typewriter PoemI peed in the boat, she told me, and laughed.Rent	SpaceWhat’s with this margin?Where does it end?Where, or I may say, do it end?	Howdy Doody time poem on this line for sale	Pategonia like a purpley pink like light,	What do you call that? Mauve? Pink? Look,	you are not paying attention to me,	said the little girl 	to the boy on the machine.What, in deed, is the reason for that loud TV?There is a fixer key to fix mistakeses, hereand there.Machine gun typewriter.Rat-a-tat-ratt-tat-tat-a. Gun fire.Omaha, Nebraska.The end.ENDING.END OF THE ROAD.Like a Northeastern and Creole Girl Before you there were words better than girls,better than music and experiences better than rhyme,now I know you better than the experience,you are in the words I write, and you are the song.From my roaming modernist truth-seeking culture,where any friend of a friend of mine is a friend of mine,Like a Northeastern and Creole girl,Coffee shop tables in this mad world,you’re the two o’clock reflection of my mind.Barebones graduate school university apartment,street lamp glow on my cigarette face,like Missoula, Montana kitchen from the 1950swhite counter tops humming leaky refrigerator,carpet from the 1960s. If I had furniture it would have been born in the 1970s, live out its’ high time in the greed and mindless 80s Coca Cola ads and Izod shirts, the degradation and middle east news flash wars of the 90s, and find itself tired and slightly torn in the salvation army warehouse by turn of the century where, if I had furniture, is where I would have bought it with my girl in time.Like a Northeastern and Creole girl,ragtop desktops with Egyptian inlaid swirl, you’re the early morning reflection of my mind.If I could I’d watch you ruminate on your cosmic limitless in the abstract value system of your mind, watch you consciously seek out and tap into your natural verisimilitudes, year in, year out,find your ontological axioms on which you stand, or brace yourself to gain leverage,pushing your way through the over-grown madnessof a fundamentally mixed-up world.Like a Northeastern and Creole girl,on runnin’ rainy midnight streets girl,you make sense to me, as sacred things do,like good voo doo do,Like Robert Creely do,Link Montana air do,like you do,who do,and me do,too.(Spontaneous typewriter poem after the Irish Snug, written in the new studio headquarters, late night, 3:01 am Oct. 06, Race Street 2317, Denver.)Black Bird HighwayAlready through three rain storms, two wind storms, and four sun storms I came across American graffiti says:	“Sven Loves Danger” and	“We Love Daddy, Your Four Girls”	Embezzled into crumbling rock wall of an old overpass somewhere outside of, but not too far out from, Missoula, Montana.Miles later, a new storm now in my rearview mirror, lightening over Crazy Mountain Museum, I thought of Jenny L. in the Montana Conservation Corps, splashing naked with an inter tube down the summer Blackfoot	then canvassing door-to-door in Billings armed with a stack of brochures, three clipboards, one speech, and her own audacity to reel people in like fish. She could be in the know.If I’m headed home on the Black Bird Highway, then,	please tell me which way to go.Crossing South Dakota, I slept along the wide Missouri. Sunshine banks on a Saturday boat-launch picnic-use and no-camping morning. I’ve never been no-hassled	so well for sleeping out for free. I dreamt about Nebraska dust and my Kansas winds in tow.If I’m headed home on the Black Bird Highway, then, please tell me which way to go.South Dakota, though, will drive you mad and fifteen months in the cabin in the woods can do the same. So I pulled over, smiled at the girl attending the t-shirt counter, and snapped a photo of the Mitchell Corn Palace, then snapped another photo of the tourists snapping photos of the Mitchell South Dakota	Corn Palace, a palace in downtown Mitchell made of corn.If I’m headed home on the Black Bird Highway, then, please tell me which way to go.I screamed across Minnesota in all my drowned-out dreams of Garrison Keillor’s Prairie Home Companion. Spring time after all the frozen snowmobile deathson not-so-frozen lakes, Minnesota north country winos on truck stop benches, motor boats on trailersall the way to the old Mississip’, across the canaland smoothed out cliffs of the French Islands and Lacrosse, Wisconsin, just under my holy St. Joseph’s bridge.If I’m headed home on the Black Bird Highway, then, please tell me which way to go.Chicago, then, and I’ve said it before, is a city of grand proportions, an adult dose of life times and old-city friends come outta the woodwork.Cub fans, DePaul University computer programmers,nursing school operation table anesthesiologists, art school teachers and innocent bystanders who rocked and rolled and sat silent transcendental meditation all the way from the Big Island of Hawaii and back to sit with their families and meet new wives in the dusty and dark cocktail basement bars of Wrigleyville after drinking pint glasses of mixed-up pool-side Mexican margaritas, all the time finding their own way home.If I’m headed home on the Black Bird Highway, then,	please tell me which way to go.Gary, Indiana; Indianapolis, Indiana; Louisville, Kentucky; Nashville, Tennessee; Grand Old Oprey, into Knoxville, waking up street-side poets at three a.m. who haven’t slept for days but stay up drinking and howling and wandering unabashed in country-western music halls, who sleep in the lawns	staying up till dawns when there’s no where else to roam.If I’m headed home on the Black Bird Highway, please tell me which way to go. If I’m headed home on the Black Bird Highway, please tell me which way is home.Hitchhiker PoemGerome, “These are the guys I write poems about, these are my friends.”Gerome, “These are the guys who are in America. In it.	Everyone else is merely going off in a hazy daze of caught-up life, trampling under foot.”Sunday TroubadourAlong the San Miguel River on the hobo platform again	where Jay from St. Louis, 	rolling down to old New Mexico in a couple	of days, running strong, seeking out the 	mountains	all summer long.Where Mike D. is lost and finding his way	at the bottom of a paper bag bottle,	tipping on the table,	rocking in the sun.Where James the old man wino fell off the boxcar,	fell out of The Grapes of Wrath	to drink with his doll, Steve,	with the young ones,	the real ones,	the quiet ones, 	the awake ones,	and the ones finding truth and solace 	on a Sunday troubadour morning, the bluegrass	touching down over the ponds and buggy weeds	straight to the heartless bottom of their 			paper bag bottles.“You have the cute little dreddy boy,” says Mike D.,	Awake in the day, to the lady picking up 	empty bottles from the grass,	“No,” She laughs back, “I’m the wrong person,	you have me confused,” and on she goes, but	adds, “If you fall asleep today, Boy, 	it’s a hot one, and do it in the shade.”“Bubba got burnt.” I offered with a laugh. “Bubba, man, his legs, he napped in the sun 	and forgot to put sunblock anywhere else 	except his nose.”So now Bubba has his Colorado sunburn,	Edgar Meyer has his MacArthur Fellowship	Genius Grant,	Kasey Chambers has her new baby,	Mike D.’s got no respect,	the bottle lady’s got herself confused,	Steve the doll’s got his boxcar dad,	Zion the dog has himself wet in the river 	grass trying to mate,	Picnic table banjo’s in my ear,	Jack Micheline’s on my mind,	My Montana cabin is in my heart, and	My highway crowd has a new hobo poem,	Some happy pop just tapped me on the shoulder	said, “I don’t mean to interrupt, but it’s	time to put your to-do list away and enjoy the	show.” So I guess then, now, it’s time to go.Book Mark TicketsI have twelve shelves of books marked with stubsOf travel tickets from trips across a decadeOf my past.Like the waify thin ecologically printed Punch tags from riding the Metra commuterOut of Chicago’s Loop,A long, timely metal mastodon of commerce.Laptop coffees and mismatched trench coat blues.Like the heavy perforated slabs,The computer processed cards torn fromThe enveloped body of airline e-tickets,“Pops up on top,” the flight attendant repeats,Her suited self a redundant machineJust like the turnstile From which the ticket juts forth.Like the long railway passes of the fleeting and Great American Railway network,The nearly defunct switch yards,Old man Amtrack trains huffing and whining,Clicking around the West,The perfect page marker for whiskey whistleAnd dusty felt, no-hold-‘em spindle rackDimestore cowboy novels.Like the sleek model black and yellowBee sting design, one corner truncated,Of the Chicago Elevated rockers.Uptown, downtown, Blue Line to the Art Museum.One dollar fifty is all you need.A Painted Saint Jude(As published in Open Windows, Ghost Road Press, winner of the Colorado Book Award)Read? Why would you want to read, andchange your mind, when there is so muchout there to sit right here and see and look at and think about, clicking along, sipping hot tea,warm sun warming my sleepy Zen face.The cracked buildings, eroding city streets, market streets fast in the mornings filled with steamand flannel shirts and fork lifts and produce pallets,always one silver parked Mercedes chirping to life its activated high tech alarm system,tinted windows in the new dawn chill.Graffiti artwork, graffiti trash, the warm cafesdrinking up with a yellowish glow from the insidesmall tables in out of December Chicago snowfall.The people bundled in their everyday work-a-days,happy for the Christmas and holiday seasonbugging about, some reading newspapers,some having newspapers tucked up under their armabout the influx of new Pro Bowl blood, or the New York Times stocks, or the Baltimore Coltsnumber one offense against the dreaded Denver Broncos in an early week sixteen pick.Past Western Avenue and New StudentCatholic Church School bus neighborhoodswith sincere backyards who look to be at home,and in those little houses I know the world has maybe made those backyard people not like their lives all that much, and maybe made a lot of things go wrong, and maybe I like their lives more than they do. From up here on the train platform, they have their good adventures, too.All you have to do is go away for a while,I want to say to them, your children are your sunshineand your joyous pine tree tidings. You and your neighbors yards blessed with a light dusting of snow this morning, peacefully, maybe for the first time, but surely not the last, two weeks prior to our midwestern New Years Eve.Put a little gold framed Saint Mary in your front porch window or a painted Saint Jude, the philanthropist, or Saint Francis de Assisi who loved the creatures best of all.But love something with all your mind, I want to say to them, and think about it heavily every day, at least for a while, and maybe things won’t seem so bad.But don’t forget to go away once in a while,and then come back, and you’ll maybe seethe honest Taoist truths of your days.Still Reflections of the SunriseWhen, still, reflections of the sunrise are nowhere to be seen, until morning when I awake hovering like a thirty-year transcendental monk over early day and big city freight train blues. The priest next to me is curled up on a short bench under his flannel cloak in the lounge car whispering Sunday psalms and clinking his Rosary necklace beads in the pre-dawn calm and solace, gently rocking back and forth easterly across the cornfields of Nebraska: frosted and black like a stormy ten ton shadow, lit up like Christmas day. The priest’s cloak is his hobo coat. My hobo coat, like all true hobo coats, is needed and surely is something traded for out of a greasy sidewalk pawn shop, mining town general mercantile, or afternoon salvation commissary thrift, somewhere along the edges of the other side of America. Laying on my side it drapes over my right shoulder and covers me down to just above my knee. But without box spring and mattress, it’s work to find your sleep. Without job and paycheck, it’s work to find your food. Without everyday repetition and always familiar faces, it’s work to find your friends. And you know the whole thing is hard, and traveling the low roads and rail lines of our new millennium turtle island makes things none the more easy—not even with a holy Good Book Hope-for-Today chanting Catholic morning Adventist Father dozing off along the starry midwestern night quietly whispering Sunday psalms beside you.(Nebraska BNSF Line.)Long-Distance RunnerIt’s quiet out there along the suburban golf coursein daylight savings Illinois December,peacefully two weeks before Christmas.It’s just me, the moonlight shadows,and the omnipresent wedge-shaped flocksof the calling Canadian GeeseSmart enough to be out there,wise enough to be making their way south.Although Good Parents Would Not Approve, Joking Around With Strangers on the Soft Shoulder Comes Highly Recommended“My planets are in alignment,” I told him.“What?” He barked.“Everything for me right now is cosmic-ly connected	on an interstellar scale, things are	metaphysically in tune.”“Well then,” He told me, “You’d better write a poem,	because days like these don’t come easy. 	They come, but they’re rare, and when they do	you better play the lottery...	or write a poem.”“I have,” I said, “But it’s not just one poem, it’s a whole ongoing and endless collection of prose. Some with line breaks,” I added, “Some without.”“That’s wonderful,” He said, “I see you’re on the	verge of something spectacular — on an	intrinsically exploratory and universally	transcendental level, that is.” He spoke back with a generous chuckle, full-heartily 		matching my earlier attempt at laconic and 	lexicon-ic superfluousness.“I admire you too,” I told him, “As an old man, 	as an intellectual lyricist, 	a thoughtful philanthropist, and 	as a fellow bluegrass tramp, ranting and	pillaging and ripping our clothes on barbed-wire fences around farm fields and race car tracks all around this big country just to see the show.”(Kansas Highway.)To All Those Involved in A Frickle Frackle Shakori Ramblers Hot Damn ReunionI just bought a three day admissions and camping pass for me and the beautiful lady for the Folks Festival in Lyons, CO in middle August. If ye have not been to the infamous Planet Bluegrass Compound with break neck rock cliffs and drink drunk float tube creek rippling around the trees, wooden stage, two campgrounds nearby, nestled town of Lyons good people selling booze and what not, I trust you will consider the opportunity to do so this summer. For those of ye who have indeed been on site, you surely know the long list of reasons for my reservations and securities to be in shining three day attendance. As for the 10,000 Lakes Festival, I’m still in as far as I know at this fine moment. Though, now, I don’t know how many groceries I’ll be fit to purchase over the next few months. But, hell, highway miles in the dirty truck and rolling around in ever-changing instamatic campsites have seemingly always been more important than ever has been the intake of truly metabolic calories. Oh, hunger! Such a fine and lasting companion for new horizons are thee.Denver’s Newest Timeless Litorical EscapadesLet’s see if any freaks in blue jeans are up at this hour. But they never are, it’s the witching hour, for old bones and pomes, and wine left last never drunk from the bottle sitting dusty on the marble countertop, too sweet for the average guest to swindle away, not pursing lips or gagging themselves with water down the drain.So there it sits, Old Bones Marble Top Vine, straight from Nice, or Roma, or rag-tied washed up tip top bottle cap outta my daydream honeymoon Ionian Sea.Smart as a WhipI was being really, you know, casualin choosing the term “smart as a whip”. It is sort of reminiscent, in use, of my grandmother in Pittsburgh, living way up on the hill in their brown, brick house overlooking Three Rivers Stadium on one side, and the Pennsylvania turnpike, way down below, on the other. Particularly, I liked being there in the winter, for Christmas, when the Appalachian hills were grey and cold and muddy, and your ears would always sting and ache, red in the December air. Twelve years old, standing out on the painted back porch alone or with my siblings, wrapped in heavy coat and hat, enveloped in the madness of the thought of jumping over the side, sliding through the snowy forests all the way down to the highway below where the cars whipping by at top speed seemed somehow deliriously out of touch with my immediate sense of the old, the cold, and the quite, and all the decadesthat passed since my father was a child, running down the dead end street out front of the house, to parochial school and the nuns somewhere in Greenville, or on Squirrel Hill, in the city, at the bottom of Neeb Street, with his boyhood friends.The Ex-Girlfriend Roda LeeversonIt was the first time I’d ever seen her loose it. I mean, go violently, completely out of her mind, late on a summer night, her head swimming in a well-nourished cocktail massage of prescription psycho-pharmaceuticals and booze. The brown plastic bottles of pills she kept handy, from day to day, in her purse, on the night stand, kitchen counter top. Along with forgotten phone bills and crusted Double-A Energizers, the medication would spill out of the ratty, disorganized glove compartment of her crumbling, rusted gold 1992 Volkswagen Fox. I would see this on the rare occasion I’d be riding shotgun: She’d carelessly hit a divot in the pavement, the car would shake miserably, the duct tape holding the glove box flap closed would give out, and this shit would fall all over the floor. Bouncing off of my shoes. Resting in the dirt.The envelopes and batteries stayed where they fell. The drugs, on the other hand, were an immediate, and tip-top-notch hasty glorified reconnaissance.Bridge Jumpers Union, Inc. A Neo-propaganda strategy for the hangers-on, a past time for HelotsCome one, come all and join the Bridge Jumpers Union.We are an incorporated bunch, band in the good fightAnd we’ve each come to the end of our existential ropes.Come one, come all and get on board the freight train headed north, or south, or galactically, due west above the Never Summer Mountain Range were’s the last cosmic stop before recapitulating ourselves to a quiet place in Siberia-back-woods-tropicana where the cell phones don’t reach, CNN has turned a non-profitable cold shoulder. Where no cars can rip past your loved ones, once again, on a warm evening walk with the stars.Come one, come all, and for a short time only, with your membership fees you’ll get a pound of bubble bath, and, like Calgon, it will take you away if only momentarily in your day, from the instamatic, no-brain culture we’ve so willingly and full-heartedly created for ourselves. You can join for a year, get ten free stock trades online, or opt for the two year plan with rollover minutes, or shop now at the Bridge Jumpers Union, and you won’t have to worry about spam blockers, or hackers, or late night UPS jewelry computer disk thieves stealing your loot, taking your credit card and photo ID, becoming your stem cell double, racking up phantom bills, taking you to the ever-present cleaners.Sign up now with us, I say, download the trial version today of our home-office version of a no hassle, see-how-you-like-it version two point oh, and we’ll throwin a wild set of medically sharpened double-sided steak knives with which you can abduct your next outer space visitor, and henceforth on, enjoy clean burning hybrid fuel that our non-existent interstellar counterparts used in their primordial past, but don’t know they used because, according to the United States government, aliens don’t exist.Act now and for a short time only you’ll get the lowest rates available through the Bridge Jumpers Union. We’ll throw in a seasonal creek running through, easy access most months of the year, a view of Christ’s Biblical ass, surrounded on three sides by National Forest and BLM quote-un-quote federally protected lands.We’re a multinational, non-profit organization, we offer time-shares for the first Time-Warner minus AOL conglomerate that’ll have you living like Star Wars figures on the moon. We have gracious views of the sun, direct from the Death Star, where moon-walking media products, and pop starlight, euro-Deity singers, ain’t got no clout to show their breasts to the NFL world, have slumber parties with young boys, or kill their wives with one of our steak knives, whether the glove fits or not.As a trade-based union, we’ve been to Deadwood, South Dakota and laid low, frame by frame from the madmen drinking fake whiskey and the HBO.As a trade-based union, we’ve canoed the Blackfoot, and hoped like hell and ran loose with the Freight Train Riders of America and the pick-a-pack bluegrass bands of Missoula, Montana, we wouldn’t see Brad Pitt or his Hollywood cronies on the frontier or hear anything of “A River Runs Through It.”As a trade-based union, we’ve made global-trek headquarters in Wicker Park, Chicago and knew more about The Real World than silly MTV for to whom could ever hope.Out here, on the edge of wilderness, not a zig zag mass media industry setting, in not the final frontier, but a new frontier, where the mid-day winds blow quietly and the red-legged honey creeper, the ursus meritimus reign supreme on the mental food chain, we’ve long surpassed the inner city melee and looked well past the small towns of styley façade Rocky Mountain highway robbery, paper-thin trails of drunks in bars, writing postcards to the stars, which has always, I mean always, been a grand distraction, and always a past time for helots.Fifty Pesos y Mi NoviaFifty pesos y mi novia es necessito a todo.Fifty peso and my notebook, a long walk downThrough the narrow stone streets of town, The restaurants, the smells de los pescados And garlic, the sellers heckling me every ten steps On the hand-laid masonry, los motos, the mopeds, In skinny roadways, little dogs of different breeds Flopping aimlessly, the slums of Avenito Juarez, Mi libro en junio, my book in June fourteen hundred Miles del norte where I met you three months ago today.Mi novia dormiendo en la cabana. Me, at the bar, or Sitting meditation on the afternoon sunset sand, Sitting then with tequila and the whistles and nylon Six string guitars of the songwriters down on las calles De cuidades, my notebook in my pocket, fifty pesos Folded in the spine, y mi novia es necessito a todo. My book, five dollars, and you are all that I need.(Playa Poem. La Isla Mujeres, Quintana Roo, Mexico.)Two CandlesAlthought it is probably the physics of the situationAnd shifting air currents, and transitioning energyMaking the candle flame bend and hop around on its wick, I’ve noticed some human characteristics coming through.Two votives, each equidistant from the belly of the little jade Buddha. one dropped down into a glass casing, the other sitting free as the bacon in the open room. The flame surrounded by a glass enclosure, you would think, would be guarded and solemn and still, while its unrestrained neighbor would go hog wild, live without laws, bounce and burn what it could, and relinquish outlaw havoc in the world. However, the exact opposite is true.Every day I light both candles, the transparent glass is a window, the transparent glass is a stressful presence for it’s flame, apparently, because the flame with the transparent glass around it never stands still. The other flame, the flame left alone to do with itself as it will, the flame who’s unoppressed by pressed, circumferential enclosures like jail walls,broken homes, or greedy, polished government, sits like Buddha to its left.Sit in A Chair and Pay A Professional to Do the Job While in Chicago I went to get the first sit-in-a-chair-and-pay-a-professional-to-do-the-job haircut that I have had in probably ten years. The shampoo was very relaxing. Warm water from the spigot rinsing down the back of my scalp. Small firm hands massaging the perimeter of my skull. Once I was in the chair, she asked how did I want my hair cut? I didn’t know what to say. I had no experience in these matters. So I said only this: “Shorter.”Off she went, silent as a nun, breathing in her small breaths, combing aside the dripping locks of hair, snipping tight little arrangements from betwixt her index and middle finger. Pieces falling like snow flakes on my plastic waterproof gown.The gel and blow-dryer technique afterwards the dispersing of negative ions to eliminate frizz and add fullness and body, resulting in a shiny and smooth, healthy finish was so foreign to me,sitting there attentively in the comfortable swirling red chair, that I found myself nothing short of completely amused. When I was brushed off, jumped up, and paid the bill,the quiet Japanese hair dresser and her husband told me in broken English that I could wait out the Illinois monsoon that had taken up outside -- in the streets, trees bending in half due to wind, hurriedparking lot people sprinting to their cars with soggy newspapers wrapped tightly around their heads -- by reading a sprawling, fanned stack of People magazines or watching the fuzzy television that end-capped a row of chairs along one wall of the strip mall parlor. I had no where else to be, so I did.Speaking of HousesI just put in an application in orderto rent one on Humbolt Streetthree blocks from campus. The place is old, shaded by heavy trees and wide shrubbery in the yard. Hardwood floors and high ceilings throughout, A choice of potential writing studio offices, and a raw space to paint still life’s in the basement,small ceiling windows letting in the light.The neighborhood is quiet. The kids ride by on bikes.There are two toddlers in swings across the street.A Prayer Three Decades DownBefore I was tenIn the first decade of my lifeI looked for securityAnd had my family always near.During my teensI was looking for identityAnd found Jim Morrison, Surfer magazine, And trouble with my Dad.During my twenties I was looking for adventureAnd forever found freedom, bombingAcross the United States, Rambling with the outlanders,Hanging paintings in fancy, ten-room galleries along the way.During my thirties I’ll look for significanceThat my wandering, charged-up mindSometimes fools me into thinkingI don’t already have. But I do.So, I’ll continue down this stretchAnd find realization around the corners.Combined with the earlier of my discoveries,I’ll have my truth, my wife, and my Graceful, thoughtful life. Amen.(St. Cloud, Minnesota.)Thursday in Early June Under the Never Summer RangeThis picnic table is spotted and weatheredwith old dried yogurt splats, discolored paint chips,and a rusted, screwed-in sign that reads“Warning: Food and odors attract bears.”Two angler fishermen down the trail who’vewalked past my campsite twice, once on their way to the river with heads held highthe other, on their way back to their tents,comment on the glorious, horse-sizedfemale elk grazing on the wilderness feeding trail,trick-a-trek waltzing in like mystery tone oboe bass,quietly, twelve meters from my afternoon firewhere I huddle closely, from time to time,pine needles popping, grey smoke dropping,trying for warmth against the Rocky windswho come down biting through the knit and double-layer flannel of my green zip-up sweatshirtto the feeding grounds where I sit:7-11 Slurpee cup from 2004 to my left,Bing bang book of poems to my right.The Entire World is in My Corner Coffee ShopI walked out the front door down the steps thismorning and there was the Wall Street Journal,waiting for me as usual, wrapped in its translucent pink plastic so as not to get temperamental in the rain.Walking to campus, I read about a fraudulent surgeonIn West Virginia with a shoddy past whom operatedfive hundred times on the backs and legs of southerners. One man is dead. Dr. King’s trial is pending.Walking on campus, I passed a temporary circle of tables and one hundred national flags from around the globe designed to attract students far and wide to attend the study abroad fair today. It was right then I was reminded I need to go to Prague. And Tibet.Across campus I walked into the Starbuck’s on the corner. I placed my order and waited, looking up at the rows of mugs set out to attract coffee drinkers far and wide, to entice them to imagine sipping espresso at home with the new fall line.“Picture yourself…” the neat displays of merchandise said quietly, me gazing up at the generously formed brown and orange ceramics, “Picture yourself sitting at home in early morning autumn, cappuccino hissing,window pane Colorado sunrise cutting up the Wall Street Journal across your kitchen table.“Life will be good,” the stainless steel barista insisted, but solemnly, like Homer’s Sirens, but of an Arabian Mocha Sanani* blend, wild and exotic with an aroma of spice. “I will fill your home with the elegance and intrigue of a Guatamalan Antiqua*, or the bright citrus notes of a Kenyan export.”It was right then that I glanced aside and took note of a glamorously packaged cosmopolitan of Serena Organic Shade Grown Mexico* sitting proudly next to its ethical and caffeinated companion Fair Trade Blend*. Fair Trade always causes me to imagine weathered social inequalities, squinting field workers with no shoes.I have never been to Columbia or Ethiopia or Sumatra, and it may be Newsweek, CNN, and NPR putting these false images in my head, but something bigger, more influential, and farther reaching than all three media giants combined tells me that in our high tech world of American Capitalist Imperialism that is just not the case. Waking up to a culture who everyday makes it more difficult to not be a glutinous and mindless mega-indebted consumerist is becoming increasingly more of a challenge, but one which I seem to enjoy taking on. I looked the over-sized, ergonomically molded, Denver skyline and ethereal Rocky Mountain horizon facade coffee mug directly in its face when I spoke.“It’s hard to remember all these things.” I said to him softly, in my mind, so the loitering and wireless laptop e-trading customers wouldn’t hear, “It’s hard to continually consider the children of the Malasian farmer when all I want is a hot cup of coffee. It’s a demanding lot to ponder the cancerous father sweating in an Sulawesi hut, unable to feed his children.And it pains me to think what his widow will do when he is gone.Conversion Vans in BelfastI received four Lou Malnati’s Chicago style pizzas in the mail yesterday. It was Joe’s birthday gift. I called him around six o’clock in the evening to say thanks and see how he was doing. The phone ringing on the other end sounded like Anne Frank, maybe, if she had a phone, or Seán Tomás Ó Ceallaigh from Leinster House: heavy ringing mechanical droll from 1945. Then he answered. He sounded warn out, and I could tell he was talking quiet because little Martin was asleep. He said, “I only answered the phone to see who the hell was calling at this hour...I’ve just returned from the pub in Galloway with Fergel and everyone is in bed.” Then I remembered it was one o’clock in the morning in Ireland. Today I am wearing a Guinness t-shirt to work on campus. People love the Irish-Americans around here. They are building me a new, customized office. The process is not unlike the conversion van epidemic that rose to staggering heights in American popular culture during the early to mid 1970s, with a crowning point concentration of individual designs being purchased in the Southern California region at that time.They probably had conversion vans in Belfast, I would bet. And I wondered if Sinn Féin had bucket seats.Smooth sailing, I guess, and the summer surf. Oh, Those Denver Friday Night Frick-a-freck Rock-a-day PoemsTonight I drank with the ex-editor of the L.A. FreePress, the underground paper from the late 1960s which featured a rambling, drunken column from Charles Bukowski. Gene Youngblood is his name. He’s a world-known media philosopher and grand advocate for the Media Democracy Movement since before anyone knew what the Media Democracy Movement was. They didn’t know what it was because it didn’t exist, aside from being an ideological method to something more honest than CNN, NBC, or Comcast. (I don’t know that Comcast even was alive in any incarnation back then, but boycott them anyway.)For real, though, the guy, Youngblood, gave a lecture for the Digital Media Studies department’s visiting scholar program tonight on campus. He fumbled a bit with the AV setup as most people tend to do, but then said some magnificent things about DemocracyNow.org, Free Speech Television, etc. (full list to come at www.radio-qmx.org), and then the momentum turned to the Breakdown Collective, a book depository in my famed Capital Hill neighborhood where the beer and wine flowed like beer and wine, the veggie hors devours and crackers no one ate, but professors and guests ranted on about cross-continental treks, and speaking Spanish, and taking the only pharmaceutical drugs that’ll render a solid Yankee parasite-free after two months studying abroad in Brazil.So, Gene comes over to snack on a grape after I’d had a few, asks me my name. I fill him in and off to the races we go.Me: DMSHim: Santa Fe CollegeHim: Art Institute of ChicagoMe: Art Institute of ChicagoMe: Northwestern Ph.D.Him: LA FreePressMe: Media PsychologyMe: “You ever meet Bukowski?”Him: “Oh yeah.” and first hand accounts of the mad scribe handing in his work, hitting on the secretary, and on and on.Best Goddamn guy I ever met on a Thursday night in Denver. I told him about “GreenDoorHouse” and the cabin in the woods and the NEA and why Chicago is the best city and about Bernie Luskin in Santa Barbara and the books of poems and teaching a new kind of creative media class and the potential of “me and some of my buddies” being a production crew for his publication of articles from the Bukowski Days, and “the editor down in Tennessee...met him on the road,” I told him, “at a String Cheese Incident show somewhere up in the hot July mountains northwest of Salida, Colorado a few years ago...edited our way into a NEA and Montana Arts Council grant to fund the whole operation...” etc.“Montana.” He says. “Why’d you go up there?” I told him. “Montana.” He says. “I gotta get up there.” Oh, one of those nights that should never end. And make chapters worth of frick-a-freck rock a day poems. Here it comes, I say, stay tuned. “Control the context...” Gene said, in a pointing-finger, straw hat, black shirt, black suspenders, experienced and sagastic kind of way from up at the bar stool lectern. “Control the context, and you control the reality.”  ?Capital Punishment SongWhen I think about capital punishment, I think about your law school studies, and making up your signs to keep more people from ending up dead.There is a song you aught to hear it’s called Nebraska.If you aren’t familiar with the song’s lonely, high plains harmonica, get out the old record and let the needle bounce and pop while Bruce strums his acoustic guitar into the amphitheater bowels because without the music playing, and Springsteen’s sorry voice singing in your head, Sir, to the sheriff, the words just stay words on the page.There is a song you aught to hear it’s called Nebraska.Poem for My WifeI’ve written quite a few poems in my day.Some about highways, some about byways, some about freight trains and their high plains whistle sound.Some about strange days, over lays of plane flightsto Mexico or Portland town. Some about long, drawn-out treks to the holy blue mountains of Montana, my recluse cabin there, where you stand firm in your conjectures that Montana is a place where it is much to cold to move. But you know I will keep on trying.I have written poems wandering about this vast continent seeing it all: the places, the people, the nature, the nurture, the cafes and venues, museums, galleries, bars, bays, ocean liners, fishing docks, sky scrapers, animals domestic and wild. The farms, smokestacks, and the big old coal mines and steel mills from the early 1900s now torn down or blocked off that jump started the industry, and put America on the cut throat pace at which it resides today.I’ve written poems about back woods born again Christians and their shotgun God. I’ve written poems about the devil and his many faces, I’ve written pomes on Buddhist scripture, and the multitudes and Islamic races.I’ve written quite a few poems in my day, but I never have written out long verse, or any verse for that matter, triplet madrigals, quatrain strophes, haiku, iambic pentameter. Nothing. Ever. About my wife.But this one is it.This is one poem for you to know all of the usual love poem confessions like “You are so dear to me,” and “You are the one and only,” and “You are the one I think about, have dreams about late at night, lost in a new city I can’t remember its name, when you cannot be next to me, and nothing else will really do.”This is one poem for you I thought I’d try to keep simple. In fact, I thought I might just make this easy on everyone, and start out with “Roses are red”, count out four lines at four syllables a pop, and draw up a lyrical ending. But everything that rhymes with “most beautiful woman I have ever seen” came out so inconclusively trite and I only set out to write one poem for you.One poem for you to know. One poem for you to keep in that little wooden box, maybe, and take out when you think about it, or come across it some time down the road. Our road. The road that only you and I will make. A road that probably right now surely doesn’t exist on any map, no matter how hard you try to find it, saying you are the navigator and I am the driver, way out on 104th Street, near the airport middle of a Saturday, but somehow we only went out to find one thrift store or bead store, and ended up clear on the wrong side of Denver.But, sometimes we get caught up in the moment, and things don’t go exactly according to our plan, and it is those moments that I love the most, the moments I get to be with you. And it is those moments in particular about which the best poems get written.This is one poem for my wife.This is one poem for you.The Celebrity Elite of Elvis Presley, Kurt Cobain and Hunter S. ThompsonBathroom hero songs of the proletariat realize death intalking out slouchy conviction poems.The big pill bullets stroll a wide gap of silk loss terrible tears, while television confessions of our celebrity go ranting and disillusioned.As always, we folk is left wondering ona grand and worldly famous surrender justwhat       went       wrong.How Is Work Today PoemOn 8/31/06, Leonard Treadway wrote: Just awesome. I love being here all day long. I love that the sun beats through the window, making me hot. I love that I have to have a fan blowing from behind me to keep me from falling asleep or sweating. I love that I sweat anyway. I love the dull, repetitive satellite radio stations that play all day long, day after day after day and never broadcast one interesting or original song. The only thing that would make this better is if they listened to regular radio where I could be subject to an onslaught of dumbing-to-the-mind commercials. Even better, they could turn them up and pipe them through the entire floor on sleek, black speakers hidden in the rafters above. Oh wait, they already do. Also, though, I love most the fact that if I need to get up and leave I have two options: One is to go up to the same ninth floor lounge I go to everyday and get an overview of the gross downtown-scape of the city I do not like in any way, a reminder and then some, like a little salt in the wound, a mockery of my current ill-metropolis situation. My second option is to actually go outside, and wallow through the piss, the drugs, the broken glass mental illness, and sludge that surrounds me for a mile in every direction. ?I do, though, genuinely like to dodge traffic on occasion, go west on foot quietly,?and hang on the chain link fence like I did in elementary school, in the old warehouse yards, and watch the weathered Burlington Northern and Santa Fe freight trains roll in or sit there ready, sounding their lonely high desert whistles, back-dropped in late summer against the?holy black rocky mountains. This, to me, is like a poem. ?-----Original Message-----From: Carey O’Toole Sent: Thursday, August 31, 11:35 AMTo: Leonard TreadwaySubject: Que pasa?How’s work today????Commuter Train Boxcar RepentAs any good first time computer program says,“Hello world.” I am back, so to speak, back from a long, hard swim through the pea soup of academic pedestrianism, daily unemployment, the hardships of pedantic couch watching and jumping up and down yelling my head off at one more World Cup summer shoot-out backfire, front-load champ-y-one-ship. It’s good to be back. The paycheckskeep the hardships at bay.       I get paid to work out logic problems in digital format day in, day out. I take the train downtownthrough the homeless ghetto.That guy plays sodoku puzzles all ride long.That lady over here reads Nora Roberts, spindlerack novel costs $5.99 and it takes her off the train line to exotic places with maybe treasurechests or exquisite parties, and Fabio in a merlot flute tux. I wore a tuxedo once for my brothers wedding. Not much my style, but it sure was fun.I sit here staring out the plate window, trainrocking through the yards with B.N.S.F. engineslistening to Led Zeppelin records in private.My sunglasses are big. They are dark polarized and hide my John Bonham percussions from falling completely out of my irises, spilling on the tracks below. I’m back.Drag It Through the HoegaardenWho tells you what nowadays? Your one sided melancholy,Or your two track mind. Part of me wants to suggest yourmelancholy, the other, your two track mind.Has poetry ever been on your list of things to do? Do youget woken by the crows at five in the morning? I've seenboth happen, and neither has been very pretty.Every day, just after Crow cracks open dawn single-handedly with his rodomontade,I ride the bus to work and listen to my pick pocket post modern digital mediaplayer. There is no click wheel, Steve, and I like it thatMy copy of Naked Lunch is classified as "unclassifiable" therein. WhatI don't know is if I like better Naked Lunch or the fact thatNaked Lunch is free click wheelin' and unclassifiable.Dig?Something Not Satisfied So We Gotta Keep Trying Blues (or Funeral Song for Grandpa)We just flew in from Grandpa’s funeral In Pittsburgh, PA, where the stone Catholic Church, It’s grey day hourly tower bell, is ten Years older than him.We had A & B and the C seat guy moved Across to the empty aisle so we could Have three across: a one row penthouse. Plus, Morgan fell asleep On my leg like a cheetah cub on a tree branch With arms and legs dangling and they played an episode Of The Office. The headphones were free this time.When Morgan was awake she put them up to her mouth,Said ‘Hewoo’ and we were home.A hundred people didn’t turn out to see Grandpa,But the weight we carried was worth it, ten-fold.Monday Morning Storyso the security lady was at the door this morning...i swipe my cardred lightswipe in other slot: red lighti go up to her she sees me comingHer: "how did you swipe your id?"Greg: "the right way"H: how did you svipe (indian accent) the id?G: the right wayH: what?G: the right wayH: let me see itI hand it to herH: I go svipe it make shuuuurG: whateverH: Vat?G: I said 'whatever' go ahead.H: you make arrow go right vay?G: what is 'Vay'?(just kidding I didn't say that)H: I call it in.      hello, security? Id check here... "ocean, thomas, ocean, ocean,..." first name "G-r-e-g"   hangs upH: you ID is inactive, I have to take itG: what?H: I take it. Goodbye.G: "goodbye"? your keeping my id?H: yes, drive around to front door.so I start walking outside, gettin my hat onI get 1 block and Im freezing, hands numb.I see a taxi dropping someone off.I knock on the window "Can you drive me to the front door?"he says: "hugh?"G: the front door of this place, can you drive me there?Him: you have directions?G: yes.Him: get in.so he drives me to the front. I find out he's from Romania, lived in florida, now its too cold for him in chicago.then I get out at the front door and pay for the $3 cab ride.The Way It Doesn’t Absolutely Have To Be But ShouldMy writers have to be Irish.Beckett elected Saoi of Aosdána in 1984.Seamus Seoighe, Joyce, Ulysses, Dubliners.George Bernard Shaw, a Unionist’s vacuum.My philosophers have to be German.Adorno, Horkheimer in Mass Media NYC,Kittler and the Beats. Walter Benjamin your unfinished Passagenwerk. Karl Marx and the True meaning of Profit.My painters have to be French.Berthe Morisot heavy tureen, green apple, wine.Manet, the sea, The Grand Canal, Venice, blue.Edouard Vuillard, The Artist's Paint Box and Moss Roses, 1898.My gurus simply have got to be Tibetan.Gen Kelsang Gyatso, Geshela, Higher Ground,The gompa Kailash Dharma Center in MissoulaMontana down the rosy flooded streets of autumn leaves.My jazz, of course, can only be North American.Chicago 1910 saxophones vigorously ragged, thenProhibition, the radio, phonographically signified, andColtrane, rainy windowsill, Soul Eyes, is always like a dove.My bars have to be Montanan or Chicagoan.The triangle Gingerman pool hall drunken eveningsSitting belly up torn notebook on bar, pen in hand.The Top Hat in Missoula, Freight Train Riders of America. My bluegrass can only be From the hills of homeland Kentucky.But if you give me Alison Krauss front porchHarmonious in summertime Tennessee, I’ll just have to take that, too.The end.For more works and/or biographical/contact information about the author, please visit www.otoole.info.Open Source Poems and OtherwiseGreg O’Toole5049	Open Source Poems and Otherwise